---
title: "Dependencies"
date: 2020-03-02T20:41:49Z
draft: false
group: admin
weight: 301
---

Replicante Core attempts to limit the number of required dependencies to avoid management overhead.
On the other hand it is unwise to re-implement complex systems (such as databases)
if there is no need to.

In order to run, replicante requires the following:

* A distributed coordinator.
* A message queues service.
* A storage layer.
* An event streaming platform.

It is possible to use the same technology to provide more then one dependency.
Such approach is a good way to balance performance, scalability and complexity.

## Distributed coordinator

Replicante Core supports high availability, machine failure tolerance, and horizontal scaling.  
To achieve this Replicante Core runs on multiple instances.

A distributed coordinator is a system (itself also highly available) that allows the coordination
of work across all processes as well as the re-distribution of work assigned to failed processes.

Supported systems:

* [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) (recommended)

## Message queues service

Message queues services are a way for a system to request asynchronous work
to be performed by a pool of worker nodes.
This allows Replicante Core to better distribute work across processes,
optimally handle spikes in demand and ensure all work is executed.

Supported systems:

* [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) (recommended)

## Storage layer

Used to persist the information collected from users, nodes, generated metadata,
and any other permanent data that is required by Replicante Core to run.

Supported systems:

* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) (recommended)

## Event streaming platform

Events generated by Replicante are emitted onto a streaming platform.
This provides two advantages:

1. Replicante has a reliable event bus as the base for an event driven architecture.
2. Other tools can process emitted events to implement extra features and integrations.

Supported systems:

* [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) (recommended)

## Optional dependencies

Some features may rely on additional runtime dependencies.
To keep the set of required dependencies to a minimum these features must be enabled explicitly.

The needed systems and configuration details are documented within the features that need them.
